
=head1 NAME

remote-viewer - a simple remote desktop client

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<remote-viewer> [OPTIONS] -- [URI]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<remote-viewer> is a simple remote display client. The supported
protocols are SPICE and VNC.

Starting remote-viewer without URI will open a simple dialog with an
entry and a list of previously successfully accessed URI.

The URI can also point to a connection settings file, see FILE section
for a description of the format.

=head1 OPTIONS

The following options are accepted when running C<remote-viewer>:

=over 4

=item -h, --help

Display command line help summary

=item -V, --version

Display program version number

=item -v, --verbose

Display information about the connection

=item -z PCT, --zoom=PCT

Zoom level of the display window in percentage. Range 10-200.

=item -f, --full-screen

Start with the windows maximized to fullscreen.

If supported, the remote display will be reconfigured to match at best the
client physical monitor configuration on initialization, by enabling or
disabling extra monitors as necessary. This is currently implemented by the
Spice backend only.

=item -t TITLE, --title TITLE

Set the window title to B<TITLE>

=item --spice-controller

Use the SPICE controller to initialize the connection with the SPICE
server. This option is used by the SPICE browser addons to allow web
page to start a client.

=item --debug

Print debugging information

=item -H HOTKEYS, --hotkeys HOTKEYS

Set global hotkey bindings. By default, keyboard shortcuts only work when the
guest display widget does not have focus.  Any actions specified in B<HOTKEYS>
will be effective even when the guest display widget has input focus. The format
for B<HOTKEYS> is <action1>=<key1>[+<key2>][,<action2>=<key3>[+<key4>]].
Key-names are case-insensitive. Valid actions are: toggle-fullscreen,
release-cursor, secure-attention, smartcard-insert and smartcard-remove.  The
C<secure-attention> action sends a secure attention sequence (Ctrl+Alt+Del) to
the guest. Examples:

  --hotkeys=toggle-fullscreen=shift+f11,release-cursor=shift+f12

  --hotkeys=release-cursor=ctrl+alt

Note that hotkeys for which no binding is given are disabled. Although the
hotkeys specified here are handled by the client, it is still possible to send
these key combinations to the guest via a menu item.

=item -k, --kiosk

Start in kiosk mode. In this mode, the application will start in
fullscreen with minimal UI. It will prevent the user from quitting or
performing any interaction outside of usage of the remote desktop
session.

Note that it can't offer a complete secure solution by itself. Your
kiosk system must have additional configuration and security settings
to lock down the OS. In particular, you must configure or disable the
window manager, limit the session capabilities, use some
restart/watchdog mechanism, disable VT switching etc.

=item --kiosk-quit <never|on-disconnect>

By default, when kiosk mode is enabled, virt-viewer will remain open
when the connection to the remote server is terminated. By setting
kiosk-quit option to "on-disconnect" value, virt-viewer will quit
instead.

=back

=head1 HOTKEY

A key binding combination is described by a series of key strings
seperated by '+' that must be pressed together in order to activate
the associated action.

It must be composed of modifiers (shift, ctrl or alt) and a
non-modifier key. For example, "shift+f11".

=head1 FILE

B<remote-viewer> connection file is of INI file format, with a
mandatory [virt-viewer] group and "type" key.

=head2 Example

Opening a file with the following content will start remote-viewer in
fullscreen and connect to the host "betsiboka" using the SPICE
protocol:

 [virt-viewer]
 type=spice
 host=betsiboka
 port=5900
 fullscreen=1

=head2 Key list

=over 4

=item C<version> (string)

If remote-viewer version isn't at superior or equal to the required
version, an error is raised with the version expected.

The version format accepted is a list of integers seperated by '.'.

=item C<type> (string, mandatory)

The session type, either "spice", "vnc" or "ovirt".

=item C<host> (string, mandatory)

The server host to connect to.

=item C<port> (integer)

The server port to connect to.

=item C<tls-port> (integer)

The server TLS/SSL port to connect to.

=item C<username> (string)

The username for the session authentication.

=item C<password> (string)

The password for the session authentication.

=item C<disable-channels> (string list)

The list of session channels to disable.

The current SPICE channels are: main, display, inputs, cursor, playback, record, smartcard, usbredir.

=item C<tls-ciphers> (string)

Set the cipher list to use for the secure connection, in textual
OpenSSL cipher list format. (see ciphers(1))

=item C<title> (string)

String to present in the window title.

=item C<fullscreen> (boolean)

Opens the client windows in fullscreen.

=item C<ca> (string)

CA certificate in PEM format (using "\n" to seperate the lines), for verification purposes.

=item C<host-subject> (string)

Verify the certificate subject matches with the given subject.

=item C<toggle-fullscreen> (hotkey string)

Key binding for entering and leaving fullscreen mode. (see L<HOTKEY> for description of expected string)

=item C<release-cursor> (hotkey string)

Key binding for releasing cursor grab. (see L<HOTKEY> for description of expected string)

=item C<smartcard-insert> (hotkey string)

Key binding for inserting emulated smartcard. (see L<HOTKEY> for description of expected string)

=item C<smartcard-remove> (hotkey string)

Key binding for removing emulated smartcard. (see L<HOTKEY> for description of expected string)

=item C<color-depth> (integer)

Set the color depth of the guest display (16 or 32).

=item C<disable-effects> (string list)

A list of desktop effects to disable in the remote guest.

The effects that can be disabled with SPICE are: wallpaper,
font-smooth, animation or all.

=item C<enable-smartcard> (boolean)

Set to 1 to enable client smartcard redirection.

=item C<enable-usbredir> (boolean)

Set to 1 to enable client USB device redirection.

=item C<enable-usb-autoshare> (boolean)

Set to 1 to enable client USB devices auto-sharing.

=item C<usb-filter> (string)

Set a string specifying a filter to use to determine which USB devices
to autoconnect when plugged in, a filter consists of one or more
rules. Where each rule has the form of:

C<class,vendor,product,version,allow>

Use -1 for class/vendor/product/version to accept any value.

And the rules are themselves are concatonated like this:

C<rule1|rule2|rule3>

=item C<secure-channels> (string list)

The list of session channels to secure.

The current SPICE channels are: main, display, inputs, cursor, playback, record, smartcard, usbredir.

=item C<delete-this-file> (boolean)

Set to 1 for the client to remove this connection file (if it can't, it will fail silentely)

=item C<proxy> (string)

A proxy URL to tunnel the connection through.

At the time of writing this documentation, the only supported proxy
method with Spice is HTTP CONNECT.

For example, to tunnel connection through foobar host HTTP proxy on
port 8080, use the value "http://foobar:8080".

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To connect to SPICE server on host "makai" with port 5900

   remote-viewer spice://makai:5900

To connect to VNC server on host "tsingy" with port 5900

   remote-viewer vnc://tsingy:5900

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to the mailing list C<http://www.redhat.com/mailman/listinfo/virt-tools-list>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2012 Red Hat, Inc., and various contributors.
This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of the GNU General
Public License C<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent
permitted by law.

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<virt-viewer(1)>, the project website C<http://virt-manager.org>

=cut
