
=head1 NAME

virt-viewer - display the graphical console for a virtual machine

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<virt-viewer> [OPTIONS] -- DOMAIN-NAME|ID|UUID

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<virt-viewer> is a minimal tool for displaying the graphical console
of a virtual machine. The console is accessed using the VNC or SPICE
protocol. The guest can be referred to based on its name, ID, or
UUID. If the guest is not already running, then the viewer can be told
to wait until it starts before attempting to connect to the console
The viewer can connect to remote hosts to lookup the console
information and then also connect to the remote console using the same
network transport.

=head1 OPTIONS

The following options are accepted when running C<virt-viewer>:

=over 4

=item -h, --help

Display command line help summary

=item -V, --version

Display program version number

=item -v, --verbose

Display information about the connection

=item -c URI, --connect=URI

Specify the hypervisor connection URI

=item -w, --wait

Wait for the domain to start up before attempting to connect to the console

=item -r, --reconnect

Automatically reconnect to the domain if it shuts down and restarts

=item -z PCT, --zoom=PCT

Zoom level of the display window in percentage. Range 10-200.

=item -d, --direct

Do not attempt to tunnel the console over SSH, even if the main connection URI
used SSH.

=item -a, --attach

Use libvirt to directly attach to a local display, instead of making a
TCP/UNIX socket connection. This avoids the need to authentication with
the remote display, if authentication with libvirt is already allowed.
This option does not work with remote displays.

=item -f, --full-screen

Start with the window maximised to fullscreen

=item --debug

Print debugging information

=item -H HOTKEYS, --hotkeys HOTKEYS

Set global hotkey bindings. By default, keyboard shortcuts only work when the
guest display widget does not have focus.  Any actions specified in B<HOTKEYS>
will be effective even when the guest display widget has input focus. The format
for B<HOTKEYS> is <action1>=<key1>[+<key2>][,<action2>=<key3>[+<key4>]].
Key-names are case-insensitive. Valid actions are: toggle-fullscreen,
release-cursor, secure-attention, smartcard-insert and smartcard-remove.  The
C<secure-attention> action sends a secure attention sequence (Ctrl+Alt+Del) to
the guest. Examples:

  --hotkeys=toggle-fullscreen=shift+f11,release-cursor=shift+f12

  --hotkeys=release-cursor=ctrl+alt

Note that hotkeys for which no binding is given are disabled. Although the
hotkeys specified here are handled by the client, it is still possible to send
these key combinations to the guest via a menu item.

=item -k, --kiosk

Start in kiosk mode. In this mode, the application will start in
fullscreen with minimal UI. It will prevent the user from quitting or
performing any interaction outside of usage of the remote desktop
session.

Note that it can't offer a complete secure solution by itself. Your
kiosk system must have additional configuration and security settings
to lock down the OS. In particular, you must configure or disable the
window manager, limit the session capabilities, use some
restart/watchdog mechanism, disable VT switching etc.

=item --kiosk-quit <never|on-disconnect>

By default, when kiosk mode is enabled, virt-viewer will remain open
when the connection to the remote server is terminated. By setting
kiosk-quit option to "on-disconnect" value, virt-viewer will quit
instead. Please note that --reconnect takes precedence over this
option, and will attempt to do a reconnection before it quits.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To connect to the guest called 'demo' running under Xen

   virt-viewer demo

To connect to the guest with ID 7 running under QEMU

   virt-viewer --connect qemu:///system 7

To wait for the guest with UUID 66ab33c0-6919-a3f7-e659-16c82d248521 to
startup and then connect, also reconnecting upon restart of VM

   virt-viewer --reconnect --wait 66ab33c0-6919-a3f7-e659-16c82d248521

To connect to a remote console using TLS

   virt-viewer --connect xen://example.org/ demo

To connect to a remote host using SSH, lookup the guest config and
then make a direct non-tunnelled connection of the console

   virt-viewer --direct --connect xen+ssh://root@example.org/ demo

=head1 AUTHOR

Written by Daniel P. Berrange, based on the GTK-VNC example program gvncviewer.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to the mailing list C<http://www.redhat.com/mailman/listinfo/virt-tools-list>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Red Hat, Inc., and various contributors.
This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of the GNU General
Public License C<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent
permitted by law.

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<virsh(1)>, C<virt-manager(1)>, the project website C<http://virt-manager.org>

=cut
